# pod2man --section=8 --release="nss-docker" --center=" " --date="20 Oct 2015"
#

=head1 NAME

nss-docker - nss module for finding Docker containers

=head1 SYNOPSIS

libnss_docker.so.2

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is a plugin for the GNU Name Service Switch (NSS) functionality of the GNU
C Library (glibc) providing mechanism for finding Docker containers by theirs
IDs.

The container names are searched in virtual domain name C<.docker>.

The Docker API webservice has to be available as F</var/run/docker.sock> socket
for current user. Usually it requires to add the user to C<docker> system
group.

To activate this NSS module, the C<docker> module has to be added to
F</etc/nsswitch.conf> file in C<hosts:> line.

It is recommended to put the C<docker> module after C<files> module and before
C<dns> module. C<[NOTFOUND=return]> setting is recommended before C<dns> module
to prevent using DNS as fallback if the container ID is not found.

=head1 EXAMPLE

=head2 F</etc/nsswitch.conf>

hosts: files docker [NOTFOUND=return] dns

=head1 SEE ALSO

docker(1), nsswitch.conf(5)

=head1 LIMITATIONS

The container ID can't be longer than C<getconf HOST_NAME_MAX> (64 for Linux).

The container ID are case sensitive. It means that C<test.docker> and
C<Test.docker> can return different IP addresses.

Only IPv4 addresses are supported.

=head1 BUGS

If you find the bug or want to implement new features, please report it at
L<https://github.com/dex4er/nss-docker/issues>

=head1 AUTHORS

Copyright (c) 2015 Piotr Roszatycki <dexter@debian.org>

=head1 COPYING

nss-docker is distributed under the GNU Lesser General Public License (LGPL
2.1 or greater).
